High in this video we're going to talk about function introspection and in general introspection is
simply the act of examining your code analyzing your code using code.
Right so using code to look at the code that you've written maybe you want to know you want some information
about that particular object.
Well maybe about a function.
Right.
And in this case we're going to look at function introspection.
So remember that functions are first class objects.
In other words they have attributes remember attributes is basically a blanket term that covers things
like properties and methods.
And we've seen some Already we've seen that the function has a donder doc attribute also has a donder
notations attribute right doc contains the doc strings that notations a dictionary that contains the
notations for the parameters and return value of the function.
We can also attach our own attributes.
So for example if we defined this method my phunk this way we can now say my phunk dot category equals
math.
We've just created an attribute.
In this case a property called category will have a value that has a string.
Then we can do the same thing here with subcategory and we can do many other things we can attach to
you know objects you know on the functions other objects or anything else we want.
And we can then you know return that we can then get that value back by just using my phone data category
and that just can return whatever stored in there.
In this case math so we print will print math we print that will print arithmetic so functions are first
class objects.
They have attributes right.
They have properties and methods so we can look at all the different attributes that are available on
a function by using this method our method.
It's a built in function that given an object as an argument will return a list of valid attributes
for that object in particular a function.
For example we can call the error of my phunk the one that we just created and we'll see it has a bunch
of stuff in here.
We'll look at some of these attributes.
For example the donder annotations is there.
The Dunder doc is there as well.
And you'll notice that the two that we created by category and subcategory are in that list as well.
But there's some others as well.
KW defaults and name and code defaults.
We'll take a look at those in more detail.
So let's look at the first three name Dundon name.
Well that actually is just the name of the function.
So if you go to a function Let's say you go to a variable that has a function assigned to it and you
want to know what's the name of that function right in your code.
Now you know the name of the variable when you're looking at it but how would you show that on the screen.
How would you display that in the output.
Right.
Well you would just call the Dundon name an attribute of the function you would retrieve it that way.
What about the default values.
Remember we can create default values for parameters on functions where we can use the done the defaults
that will be a tuple containing the positional parameter defaults and we have KW defaults which does
the same thing but for the keyword only arguments and that will be a dictionary.
So it's an example of that.
Suppose we got this function.
We've got three positions with two of them having default values and then we have to keyword only with
one of them with a Keitt with a default value.
We can look at the Dundon name which is going to return the string my func.
Right.
That's the name of the function.
We can look at done to defaults which is going to return the top all to come in three.
Those are the two over here.
So you'll notice that it doesn't give us like a nun right it doesn't tell us that there was another
parameter or argument here that didn't have a default value.
So when you're looking at matching up the default values with the parameter names you kind of have to
go and walk your way from right to left.
Ken and then the same thing with KW defaults it works the same way but it's a dictionary.
In this case which gives us the keywords name and the default value that's associated with.
Let's look at the Dunder code attributes.
So if we have this function defined him then we can look at the dummy the code attributes which is going
to return an object.
Right.
It's going to return an object of type code an instance of a code object
and that object itself has various properties which include the following.
We have valid names Covello names which are going to be the parameter and local variable names.
So in this case the parameter names would be a B.
KW And the locals would be I.
We created I.
B is not a local.
Well he as local variable but it's not considered a you know it's the same as this variable here.
Right.
B is the parameter.
So if we call my phunk done the code dot code names.
That's how we would access it.
We would get this topple a b and Kwan's and then I note that the parameter names come first and then
the followed by the remaining local variable names we can also look at koe underscore outcomes that
will return the number of parameters that's going to count the number of parameters.
But you'll notice if we make this call we get a value of two back.
It does not include the star and the star Stockwell's.
So when you do your count it doesn't include these guys over here.
It will include any positional or any keyword only arguments but it doesn't include those two over here.
So it means that you can now start looking at a function and you can start looking at its name its parameters
its default values and you may want to do something with that but it's a little tricky right.
Remember that here we're getting the hour count which doesn't include the stock Hwang's.
We you know we have this list but it includes the local variables.
We have the default values but of course if the parameter doesn't have a default value just doesn't
show up.
So and then we have to no match from right to left so there some intricacies in all this.
So the easiest is actually to use another module that is built in Coleby inspect Mondial and to do that
you have to import the inspect module.
But once you've done that there's a slew of methods and functions that you can use in this inspect module.
Let's look at some.
So we've got the is method is function that is routine.
Those functions are all related and there's many others will look at some of them again.
You know in more detail later in this video.
But let's do a little segue to talk about the difference between a function and a method.
I've been using the terms very loosely throughout.
And I'll probably continue using them loosely but in Python there is a basic difference between a function
and a method that not really the same thing.
They look the same.
They kind of defined almost the same way but they're not quite the same.
And we'll look at that again.
You know a little bit more detail when we look at callable in general but functions and methods are
both things that can be called.
There's a difference though.
Remember that classes and objects have attributes and attributes.
As you know it's an object it's something that is bound to the class or to the object.
So for example you know an attribute that is callable that is called a method that's a counterexample.
So we have some module inside this module Here's our code we have def my phunk.
So here we've created a function using this def.
Right now we've created a class def my class and inside this class we've created a function.
We use this def keyword again.
The only difference is that this function here which uses self is an instance method.
It's an instance function.
Right.
So it's it's a function it's a property of my class it's an attribute that is bound to the instance
of my class is not bound to my class these and we'll get that.
We'll get into more detail on that in the object oriented section.
But you have class methods you have instance methods of static methods.
In this case we're looking at an instance method.
This means this is a method that is bound to instances of the object in order to call this function
which we'd have to say might we'll have to declare first my object being an instance of my class and
then we could say my object docked func.
Right.
And then func is going to receive my object.
In this first parameter here.
So this is a method that is bound to the instance of my class.
So technically it's not a function it's a method whereas this thing over here is a function.
It's not bound to an object or to a class.
It's just kind of off by itself in the module.
So that is considered a function not a method.
Right.
And the lambdas lambdas find let's say the module or whatever would be you know functions that would
not be methods.
So func is bound to my object an instance of my class.
So if we ask his function so the from the inspect module right we can call it a function of my phunk
it's going to return true because it is a function.
On the other hand if we call is method that's going to return false because it is not a method.
If we call its function on my object dot phunk will get false because it's not a function it's a method
right.
If we call is method we get true.
So you have this way of being able to distinguish between you know bound and unbound callable.
Essentially if you don't care you can also use is routine his routine will basically look at whether
it's a function or a method and then return whatever that is.
So it's routine for my phunk will return true for my object of phunk will also return true.
Well kind of depends on what you want to do.
So those are three kind of interesting calls in the inspect Mandyam But now let's continue.
We can recover the source code of all functions and methods we can actually look at the source code
in code of a piece of code that we've written.
Kind of weird but we can do that.
And we use that we can do that using the Get source function and inspect module.
So we just passing the function we're interested in or the method by whatever callable and we'll get
some information back.
In this case we'll get a string containing the entire def statement.
Right.
So for example you could write a piece of code that looks at zero a function that's been defined and
you know a module somewhere and prints that out to the screen might be very useful for documentation
purposes.
Now we can also find out in which module the function was created in Python will attempt to do that.
All of that gets the get module function is going to try and tell you where was this function created
my func.
So for example if we were running inside the module main like we you know had in the previous example
would get this module and then on the main this is where it was created.
On the other hand you can also use built in method like print will tell you while it comes from the
module built ins which is a built in module same thing.
You can look at the sign function in the math module when you do that it will tell you it was its you
know sign was defined in the module math which is also a built in module.
What about function comments.
So we talked about docstring strings in the past but take a look at this example here.
We have comments that were scattered throughout our code and you can see that these two comments here
really have something to do with my phunk right to do implement the function because I have a passage
here so I'm putting it to do as a reminder for myself that I need to come back to this later on maybe
some additional notes and then I've got the function definition and then I'll give comments inside.
This is not a docstring.
This is just a comment.
Right.
And then I'll give this a pass.
I didn't do anything in the function itself.
Well you can use the get comments function and you pass in my funk and you get back these two comments
here you get back basically any comments that aren't immediately preceding the definition of the function.
So in this case we have to do implement function and the found the old slash and write newline and then
the next comments some additional notes.
You'll notice that it doesn't include the common can and doesn't include this comment over here inside
the function.
Now why is this interesting.
Well many ideas today support to do comments so if you actually write your comment like in Python for
example you can ride a pound to do above some function and then you put in some comments or whatever
the idea itself has a location where you can go and look at all the to do statements all the to do comments.
I should say not statements that you've created in your code and it will tell you which function it's
associated with.
How does you do that.
Well I use the get comments.
It works the same way.
So we can do that ourselves if you want to implement something that goes through your code and you know
brings back a list of all the do's that have to be done.
Then you can do that using code introspection using inspect module and get comments.
So for example if you're doing you know trying to do builds maybe and you want to write a Python script
that's going to go through all the code as it pulls it out of a repo and checks to make sure that there
are no two DUIs left.
That's one way of doing it.
Maybe you need or you work in a team and people put to do is in there and you don't get your version
of the code.
You update your local repo and you need to know OK what do I need to do what I need to work on.
Maybe you do that using the two do's and you can certainly basically use get comments you know for the
different functions to see which ones have to do is associated with them.
So these kinds of things like that that you can do now just know these are not the same thing as Doc
strengths.
OK.
This the docstring for my phunk.
So my phunk doc done the doc would be empty in this case because there is no docstring.
It is a comment not a docstring OK.
Now let's look at the signatures of functions and Caldwells in general and we can do that using the
signature function in the inspect module.
We just pass in the callable and we get an object back which will be an instance of the signature class
now it's an object.
So it contains attributes one of which is the parameters attributes which is an interesting one.
It's essentially a dictionary of parameter names which are the keys and then meta data about the parameters
which will be in the values so the values are going to be objects themselves.
So the kids will be the parameter name and then the values will be objects and they have attributes
some of the common ones or name default notation and kind so name is just the name of the attribute
of the parameter.
So it will actually be the same as the key in this case default.
Well if this parameter has a default value it will show up here or it will be none if it doesn't have
a notation.
Again if the parameter has an notation we'll see that.
And kind kind is the type of parameter that's kind of an interesting one.
Remember when we define functions we have different types of parameters we have positional parameters.
We have those star Princetown stuff parameters.
We have Keywood only parameters.
While that's what kind will tell us it will tell us what it is.
Positional keyword is the one we've been talking about is positional.
Remember that when we define a positional parameter in a function when we call the function we have
a choice of either passing in a positional argument or naming the argument using the keyword.
Right.
So they positional or Keywood those all the traditional positional parameters that we've been defining
in this go so far.
And those are called positional or keyword in kind.
They're identified by that.
This is just a value right.
Positional keyword is actually an integer value but it has this string name.
Right it has a variable name and the inspect Montijo.
You also have Voll positional.
That's like the start arms the also key word only.
Those are the arguments the parameters that come after the stuff.
Right.
They become keyword only.
You have to specify them using a keyword.
We've seen that before as well.
And then you have the keyboard which is the style stuff.
OK so those are the four types of parameters and we've seen those before.
We've worked with them before.
But there is however another one the positional only these are parameters that you can only pass by
position.
In other words you cannot say well I'm going to use a keyword to pass that in.
It will refuse to accept a positional only parameter using a named argument.
Now we haven't seen this so far and the reason we haven't seen this so far is that we actually can't
do this ourselves.
So in python we don't have a way of creating positional only parameters in our functions and calls python
on the other hand internally does.
And so there are some functions which have that.
And we'll see that in the code when we take a look at that I'll show you some examples.
So the code will signatures.
Let's take a look at a more concrete example.
Suppose we get this function fine.
And here we have a bunch of parameters.
Right we have a and b which of the position holds a has an and notation B has a notation and the default
value starts right when a notation and then Keywood only arguments.
KW 1 and 2 kw 2 has a default and then the style star wars with end and rotation and then a docstring
and then something or other that the math does for program and inspect Doc's signature.
Right so we're going to force look at the signature of my phunk then we're going to look at the parameters
of that signature and then we're going to look at the values.
We know what the keys are.
It's just the parameter names but we have that in the value as well.
So in this case we're just going to iterate the values of the parameters dictionary and we're just going
to print this out.
Print name Parambrata names will give us the name of the parameter.
The default value of the parameter if any the annotation of the parameter if any and then the kind of
that parameter.
So let's switch to some code and actually see this in action.
Will be much clearer when we do so.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.